docs/index.md, before:

﻿## The talPor Philosophy

### Introduction

Whether you are onboarding on a new project, or just hotfixing a
problem in an old one, software development is **hard**.

Building software is not only technically hard, but like any other
problem, it depends highly on the human factor. Successfully shaping and
taking ideas from just a thought all the way into a successful product
involves tons of work. From the starting point, many variables, like
your client, developers, designers, among others, must be aligned
towards the goal of successfully shipping the product.

This document intends to outline what we believe to be the best
practices at all the stages related to software development. As
anything, it isn't written in stone, but rather is what we believe to
be sound advice in making software development successful.

### The Guiding Principles

At [talPor](https://talpor.com), we function as a multi-disciplinary, distributed team.
We tend to work on small teams (generally, by project) which support and
collaborate with each other. These guiding principles, enumerated below, are the core of our philosophy. Embrace them, and
put them to practice.

1. **Do not be afraid to make mistakes.** Mistakes happen. You will
   over or under-estimate that feature. You will completely
   misunderstand your client. You will break a build for everyone in
   your team. You will manage to take down production on a rainy
   day. *It* happens. And it will happen again. The whole point of
   this philosophy is to *minimize* the number of times that happens.

2. **Always try to do your best.** Even if you have done it a million
   times, or if it is the first time you get on board on a project,
   always make solid decisions. It doesn't really matter if you have been
   in the project from the get go, or you are just joining to hotfix
   that annoying problem, take that extra time to first *understand*
   the requirements, and then *build* or *fix* whatever needs to be
   fixed as best as you possibly can.


3. **Ask for help.** As previously said, we are a small team which is
   always ready to provide help when needed. Don't be afraid to ask if
   someone has ever done this or that. Don't be afraid to say you
   don't know the answer. Don't be afraid to say you don't know how to
   do something in particular. Likewise, offer your help or advice
   when you do know what is going on.

4. **Never take it personally.** This one is related to #1. It will
   come the time when that feature branch you poured yourself into
   will not make it to production. It will happen that your code will
   take down production, or make the wrong assumptions. It will come
   the time that you will be told you are doing it wrong. You are not
   what you code or what you design, and you are not the project you
   are on.

### Who is this for?

This document is primarily geared towards any talPor employees. It is
intended to contain glimpses of what we believe to be solid software
engineering, from the project conception phase up to pivoting and
iterations of a project.

As such, anyone that partakes in any of the phases of software
development, can benefit from reading and practicing what is on this
document.

### How is this document structured?

The rest of this document is structured trying to follow the common
software development flow.

1. [**Conception**](conception/index.md) happens from the minute a new client
   walks in, or a new internal project is started. Meeting the client, understanding
   requirements, forming teams, estimating features all happens at
   this stage.

2. [**Development**](development/index.md) is when the first version of the product
   is built. Smart technology decisions, good practices, and impeccable communication
   are key at this stage. This section is also were we go into detail about
   the methodology we use during projects as well as best practices for development.

3. [**Deployment**](deployment/index.md) of the project into production. Dealing with
   showstopper bugs, the 90/10 rule, handling staging and production
   servers, dealing with bugs on production, continuous integration.

Commit message:

Added two more principles to the guiding principles.

docs/index.md, after:

﻿## The talPor Philosophy

### Introduction

Whether you are onboarding on a new project, or just hotfixing a
problem in an old one, software development is **hard**.

Building software is not only technically hard, but like any other
problem, it depends highly on the human factor. Successfully shaping and
taking ideas from just a thought all the way into a successful product
involves tons of work. From the starting point, many variables, like
your client, developers, designers, among others, must be aligned
towards the goal of successfully shipping the product.

This document intends to outline what we believe to be the best
practices at all the stages related to software development. As
anything, it isn't written in stone, but rather is what we believe to
be sound advice in making software development successful.

### The Guiding Principles

At [talPor](https://talpor.com), we function as a multi-disciplinary, distributed team.
We tend to work on small teams (generally, by project) which support and
collaborate with each other. These guiding principles, enumerated below, are the core of our philosophy. Embrace them, and
put them to practice.

1. **Do not be afraid to make mistakes.** Mistakes happen. You will
   over or under-estimate that feature. You will completely
   misunderstand your client. You will break a build for everyone in
   your team. You will manage to take down production on a rainy
   day. *It* happens. And it will happen again. The whole point of
   this philosophy is to *minimize* the number of times that happens.

2. **Always try to do your best.** Even if you have done it a million
   times, or if it is the first time you get on board on a project,
   always make solid decisions. It doesn't really matter if you have been
   in the project from the get go, or you are just joining to hotfix
   that annoying problem, take that extra time to first *understand*
   the requirements, and then *build* or *fix* whatever needs to be
   fixed as best as you possibly can.

3. **Ask for help.** As previously said, we are a small team which is
   always ready to provide help when needed. Don't be afraid to ask if
   someone has ever done this or that. Don't be afraid to say you
   don't know the answer. Don't be afraid to say you don't know how to
   do something in particular. Likewise, offer your help or advice
   when you do know what is going on.

4. **Never take it personally.** This one is related to #1. It will
   come the time when that feature branch you poured yourself into
   will not make it to production. It will happen that your code will
   take down production, or make the wrong assumptions. It will come
   the time that you will be told you are doing it wrong. You are not
   what you code or what you design, and you are not the project you
   are on.

5. **Be impeccable with your words** This one refers to the way you 
   express yourself. Words are much more than the constructs of phrases that
   comes out of your mounth, they carry emotions, actions, thoughts or attitudes.
   Express yourself with integrity, say what you mean and avoid your *word* to express
   jealousy, envy, frustration, fear or anger. We respect each other ideas and thoughts.
   
6. **Don't make assumptions** When you are working on teams, communication is 
   fundamental to guarantee success in any project. You cannot assume what
   others think, so being a little verbose is not that bad. Misunderstandings
   occurs and you may end up not deploying something into production 
   because you assumed that another one was going to do it. 

### Who is this for?

This document is primarily geared towards any talPor employees. It is
intended to contain glimpses of what we believe to be solid software
engineering, from the project conception phase up to pivoting and
iterations of a project.

As such, anyone that partakes in any of the phases of software
development, can benefit from reading and practicing what is on this
document.

### How is this document structured?

The rest of this document is structured trying to follow the common
software development flow.

1. [**Conception**](conception/index.md) happens from the minute a new client
   walks in, or a new internal project is started. Meeting the client, understanding
   requirements, forming teams, estimating features all happens at
   this stage.

2. [**Development**](development/index.md) is when the first version of the product
   is built. Smart technology decisions, good practices, and impeccable communication
   are key at this stage. This section is also were we go into detail about
   the methodology we use during projects as well as best practices for development.

3. [**Deployment**](deployment/index.md) of the project into production. Dealing with
   showstopper bugs, the 90/10 rule, handling staging and production
   servers, dealing with bugs on production, continuous integration.
